Vault UI Visual Policy Editor docs (#1917)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x (rc)/content/docs/ui/visual-policy-editor.mdx

> ---

Author: Yeah, originally I was going to add this as a tab to that page, but I couldn't find one. I'm glad my instinct was correct 😅

layout: docs
page_title: Visual Policy Editor in the Vault GUI
description: >-

>   Create Vault policies in the Vault GUI with the Visual Policy Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create Vault policies in the Vault GUI with the visual policy editor.
```
Style correction: reserve capitalization for product names (not features)

---

# Visual Policy Editor in the Vault GUI

The Visual Policy Editor helps you create ACL policies with a guided interface
that generates formatted [HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/) policy syntax.

## Generate policy flyout 

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

> The following secrets engines support the **Generate policy** flyout:

Author: "visual policy creation" sort of makes it sound like the policy created is a visual policy. What about "The following secrets engines support generating a policy with the visual editor:"

or 

"The following secrets engines support the policy generator:"

> The following secrets engines support the **Generate policy** flyout:

Reviewer: I would stick with "policy generator" tbh. Adding "visual" is redundant since we're already talking about GUI functionality. And it kind of implies greater functionality that what we're actually providing. For me, at least, it brings to mind nocode IDEs

> The following secrets engines support the **Generate policy** flyout:

Author: Agree!

> @include 'ui/mounts-with-policy-flyout.mdx'

Reviewer: Why is this a partial? It doesn't seem to be used in any other docs

Use the context-aware flyout to build policies for specific workflows.
When you open the **Generate policy** flyout on a supported page, Vault
prepopulates it with API paths for that view.
You can review those paths, choose capabilities, and save the result as an ACL policy.

## Before you start

- **You must have Vault version 2.0.0 or later.**
- **You must have the appropriate permissions**:
  - To **create ACL policies**, you must have `create` permission for the [`/sys/policies/acl`](/vault/api-docs/system/policies#create-update-acl-policy) endpoint.

> 

Author: Added to "To use" section above on line 25!

> ## Generate a policy for a KV v2 secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 1: Generate a policy from a plugin
```
Are the steps different for KV vs PKI? I'm confused why one heading focuses on the name of the plugin and the other is generic (i.e., creating a policy outside the context of a specific plugin)

1. Sign in to the Vault GUI.

> 1. Navigate to a KV v2 secrets engine that contains secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your KV v2 secrets engine.
```

If the plugin has to already contain secrets, that's another requirement we should list in "before you start". Especially since it's not a strict requirement if I'm creating policies via the CLI. I believe I can define the policy before I've even enabled the plugin in that case

1. Select a secret to generate a policy for.
1. Click **Generate policy** in the page header. The **Generate policy** action may be inside the **Manage** dropdown.
1. Review prepopulated paths and select capabilities.

![visual policy editor context aware flyout](/img/gui/visual-policy-editor-flyout.png)

> ## Create an ACL policy using the Visual Policy Editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 2: Create an ACL policy using the visual policy editor
```

1. Sign in to the Vault GUI.
1. Open **Access control** and select **ACL policies**.
1. Click **Create ACL Policy**.
1. Enter the path for the ACL policy.
1. Select the desired permissions for that path.
1. Click **Add rule** to define capabilities for another path.

> 1. Click **Create policy** to save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create policy** to save the policy.
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Visual policy editor in the Vault GUI
description: >-
  Create Vault policies in the Vault GUI with the visual policy editor.
---

# Visual policy editor in the Vault GUI

The visual policy editor helps you create ACL policies with a guided interface
that generates formatted [HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/) policy syntax.

## Generate policy modal 

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

The following secrets engines support the policy generator:

@include 'ui/mounts-with-policy-flyout.mdx'

When you open the visual policy generator for a plugin, Vault prepopulates the
form with the relevant rule paths for that instance. You can review the provided
paths, add new ones, choose capabilities, and save the result as an ACL policy.

## Before you start

- **You must have Vault version 2.0.0 or later.**
- **You must have the appropriate permissions**:
  - To **create ACL policies**, you must have `create` permission for the [`/sys/policies/acl`](/vault/api-docs/system/policies#create-update-acl-policy) endpoint.
- **To get the most out of the policy generator, create secrets in the target secret engine first.**

> ## Option 1: Generate a policy from within the plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 1: Generate a policy from within a plugin
```

Reviewer: Since we're writing for the generic case, it should probably be "as" instead =\
